Add documentation for version 2 (#6)
laminas/laminas-mvc-middleware: docs/book/v2/quick-start.md

> # Quick Start

Reviewer: The quick start must contain a complete and comprehensible example for the correct use of this component. This means to add also paths and filenames and concrete examples instead of "foo", "bar", "some" and so on.

For example:

> Define a route for a request handler in a module configuration file, e.g. `module/Album/config/module.config.php`:
> ```php
> use Album\Middleware\AlbumListHandler;
> use Laminas\Mvc\Middleware\PipeSpec;
> use Laminas\Router\Http\Literal;
> 
> return [
>     'router' => [
>         'routes' => [
>             'album' => [
>                 'type' => Literal::class,
>                 'options' => [
>                     'route' => '/album',
>                     'defaults' => [
>                         'controller' => PipeSpec::class,
>                         'middleware' => AlbumListHandler::class,
>                     ],
>                 ],
>             ],
>         ],
>     ],
> ];
> ```

In this way we avoid one of the main problems of documentation.

Author: okay, I tried to use real-world examples... more or less.
Is that what you were aiming for?

# Quick Start

## Mapping Routes to Middleware

> The first step is to map a route to PSR-7 middleware. This looks like any other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first step is to map a route to PSR-15 middleware. This looks like any other
```

Reviewer 2: Also, this could be middleware _or a request handler_.

[routing](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/routing/) configuration,

> with small changes: the `controller` key in the routing options has to be the `\Laminas\Mvc\Middleware\PipeSpec` class

Reviewer: The same here.

Author: okay, I changed it everywhere I found a FQCN that started with a backslash.
But isn't it problematic (espacially in this case) that readers copy/paste the class into their config which probably _is_ namespaced and run into an error?

Reviewer: > But isn't it problematic (espacially in this case) that readers copy/paste the class into their config which probably _is_ namespaced and run into an error?

The target group of the documentation are experienced PHP developers and each IDE also displays the error.

Author: > The target group of the documentation are experienced PHP developers and each IDE also displays the error.

Yes, then it's not a problem 🙂

literal, and you provide a `middleware` key.

> For example, to register an `AlbumListHandler` located in the `module/Application/Handler` directoy to the routes of

Reviewer: "directory"

Author: Thanks, Hawkeye 😉

your `Application` module, add the following route to `module/Application/config/module.config.php`: 

```php
use Application\Handler\AlbumListHandler;
use Laminas\Mvc\Middleware\PipeSpec;
use Laminas\Router\Http\Literal;

return [
    'router' => [
        'routes' => [
            'album-list' => [
                'type' => Literal::class,
                'options' => [
                    'route' => '/albums',
                    'defaults' => [
                        'controller' => PipeSpec::class,
                        'middleware' => AlbumListHandler::class,
                    ],
                ],
            ],
        ],
    ],
];
```

> Middleware may be provided as instance of a PSR-15 `\Psr\Http\Server\MiddlewareInterface` or `\Psr\Http\Server\RequestHandlerInterface`

Reviewer: The same here.

strings, or a `Closure` . These will then be piped into a `Laminas\Stratigility\MiddlewarePipe` instance in the order in
which they are present in the `PipeSpec`. See [routing middleware](routing-middleware.md) for examples.

> ### No Action Required
>
> Unlike action controllers, middleware typically is single purpose, and, as
> such, does not require a default `action` parameter.

## Middleware Services

Middleware are pulled from the application service manager, unlike controllers in a normal
[laminas-mvc](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/) dispatch cycle, which are pulled from a
dedicated `ControllerManager`.

Middleware retrieved **must** be a PSR-15 `MiddlewareInterface` or `RequestHandlerInterface` instance.
Otherwise, `MiddlewareListener` will create an error response.

## Writing Middleware

The next step is writing actual middleware to dispatch. PSR-15 defines two different interfaces:

### `MiddlewareInterface` vs. `RequestHandlerInterface`

_Middleware_ is code sitting between a request and a response; it typically analyzes the request to aggregate incoming data, delegates it to another layer to process, and then creates and returns a response.

> A _RequestHandler_ is a class that receives a request and returns a response, without delegating to other layers of the application. This is generally the inner-most layer of your application.

Reviewer 2: This is not entirely correct.

Request handlers are generally either the _inner-most_ **or** _outer-most_ layers of your application. When they are the outer-most layer, they **do** delegate to other layers of the application; as an example, in Mezzio, the application pipeline... is a request handler, and it dispatches the pipeline it composes in order to create a response.

Author: Hmm, to be honest, I borrowed that explanation from the [Mezzio docs](https://docs.mezzio.dev/mezzio/v3/getting-started/features/). Do you want me to change the wording? The "generally" in the explanation somehow suggest that there are also other ways. And as far as I know, `RequestHandler`s  cannot be used as outer-most layer in laminas-mvc.

Reviewer 2: Yes, please change. If you have time, would you also please send a PR to the Mezzio docs to fix it there as well?

Technically, the outermost layer of the pipeline even in laminas-mvc-middleware is also a request handler, as it's a `MiddlewarePipe` instance... :smile:

Author: as discussed in [slack](https://laminas.slack.com/archives/CAP4J90LW/p1610557563136400), we leave that as-is.
Is there anything to be changed for the PR to be mergeable?

For more in-depth documentation visit the documentation for [Mezzio](https://docs.mezzio.dev/mezzio/v3/getting-started/features/)
and [Stratigility](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-stratigility/v3/intro/) or the [PSR specification](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-15/).

### Request Handlers

```php
namespace Application\Handler;

use Application\Entity\Album;
use Laminas\Diactoros\Response\TextResponse;
use Psr\Http\Message\ResponseInterface;
use Psr\Http\Message\ServerRequestInterface;
use Psr\Http\Server\RequestHandlerInterface;

class AlbumDetailMiddleware implements RequestHandlerInterface
{
    public function handle(ServerRequestInterface $request): ResponseInterface
    {
        /** @var Album $album */
        $album = $request->getAttribute('album');

        return new TextResponse('The name of the album is: ' . $album->getName());
    }
}
```

> RequestHandlers resemble a single MVC Controller action, so mostly a `ReqeustHandler` will be used to dispatch a request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RequestHandlers resemble a single MVC Controller action, and will be used as the primary application functionality when dispatching a request.
```

use Fig\Http\Message\StatusCodeInterface;
use Laminas\Diactoros\Response\TextResponse;
use Laminas\Router\RouteMatch;
use Psr\Http\Message\ResponseInterface;
use Psr\Http\Message\ServerRequestInterface;
use Psr\Http\Server\MiddlewareInterface;
use Psr\Http\Server\RequestHandlerInterface;

class AlbumFromRouteMiddleware implements MiddlewareInterface
{
    /** @var AlbumRepositoryInterface */
    private $albumRepository;

    public function __construct(AlbumRepositoryInterface $albumRepository)
    {
        $this->albumRepository = $albumRepository;
    }

    public function process(ServerRequestInterface $request, RequestHandlerInterface $handler): ResponseInterface
    {
        /** @var RouteMatch $routeMatch */
        $routeMatch = $request->getAttribute(RouteMatch::class);
        $albumId    = $routeMatch->getParam('album_id');
        $album      = $this->albumRepository->findById($albumId);

        // if no album was found, we short-circuit the pipe and return a 404 error:
        if ($album === null) {
            return new TextResponse(
                sprintf('Album with ID %s not found!', $albumId),
                StatusCodeInterface::STATUS_NOT_FOUND

>             );

Reviewer 2: Please don't use a specific response implementation! (also,  you've not imported this class anyways!).

Instead, compose a PSR-17 response factory via the constructor, and use the repsonse factory to create the response. This helps decouple from a specific PSR-7 implementation.

Author: I _did_ import it. But you're right, I've rewritten it to use ResponseFactory and StreamFactory, instead.

        }

        // ...otherwise we populate the request with the album and call the RequestHandler
        $request = $request->withAttribute('album', $album);
        return $handler->handle($request);
    }
}
```

Middleware can return a direct response, in effect short-circuiting the middleware pipe, or pass request further
while having a chance to act on passed request or returned response.
Middleware in laminas-mvc is similar to [routed middleware](https://docs.mezzio.dev/mezzio/v3/features/router/piping/#routing)
in Mezzio. Laminas-mvc does not have a global middleware pipe, so middleware can not be piped in front of MVC controllers.

## Middleware Return Values

> As middleware returns a PSR-7 response (`\Psr\Http\Message\ResponseInterface`) it is converted back to a

Reviewer: The same here.

# Quick Start

## Installation

Use composer to install the library:

```bash
$ composer require laminas/laminas-mvc-middleware
```

If the [laminas-component-installer](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-component-installer/) is installed in your project
it will register the new component automatically. Otherwise, you have to add `Laminas\Mvc\Middleware` at the **top** of your

> `config/modules.config.php` file.

Reviewer: Can be removed because we have already an installation page with content. To activate this page:

1. [add an entry to the navigation](https://github.com/laminas/laminas-i18n/blob/99519a72c3a38ab0522df332a732841517c16332/mkdocs.yml#L6) in MkDocs configuration
2. [add the module class name](https://github.com/laminas/laminas-i18n/blob/99519a72c3a38ab0522df332a732841517c16332/mkdocs.yml#L50-L52) in MkDocs configuration
3. [create an empty file](https://github.com/laminas/laminas-i18n/blob/2.12.x/docs/book/installation.md) for the page

> such, does not require a default `action` parameter.

## Middleware Services

Middleware are pulled from the application service manager, unlike controllers in a normal
[laminas-mvc](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/) dispatch cycle, which are pulled from a
dedicated `ControllerManager`.

Middleware retrieved **must** be a PSR-15 `MiddlewareInterface` or `RequestHandlerInterface` instance.
Otherwise, `MiddlewareListener` will create an error response.

## Writing Middleware

The next step is writing actual middleware to dispatch. PSR-15 defines two different interfaces:

### `MiddlewareInterface` vs. `RequestHandlerInterface`

_Middleware_ is code sitting between a request and a response; it typically analyzes the request to aggregate incoming data, delegates it to another layer to process, and then creates and returns a response.

A _RequestHandler_ is a class that receives a request and returns a response, without delegating to other layers of the application. This is generally the inner-most layer of your application.

For more in-depth documentation visit the documentation for [Mezzio](https://docs.mezzio.dev/mezzio/v3/getting-started/features/)

> and [Stratigility](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-stratigility/v3/intro/) or the [PSR specification](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-15/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and [Stratigility](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-stratigility/v3/intro/) or the [PSR-15 specification](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-15/).
```

    }

    public function process(ServerRequestInterface $request, RequestHandlerInterface $handler): ResponseInterface
    {
        /** @var RouteMatch $routeMatch */
        $routeMatch = $request->getAttribute(RouteMatch::class);
        $albumId    = $routeMatch->getParam('album_id');
        $album      = $this->albumRepository->findById($albumId);

        // if no album was found, we short-circuit the pipe and return a 404 error:
        if ($album === null) {
            return $this->responseFactory->createResponse(
                StatusCodeInterface::STATUS_NOT_FOUND,
                sprintf('Album with ID %s not found!', $albumId)
            );
        }

        // ...otherwise we populate the request with the album and call the RequestHandler
        $request = $request->withAttribute('album', $album);
        return $handler->handle($request);
    }
}
```

Middleware can return a direct response, in effect short-circuiting the middleware pipe, or pass request further
while having a chance to act on passed request or returned response.
Middleware in laminas-mvc is similar to [routed middleware](https://docs.mezzio.dev/mezzio/v3/features/router/piping/#routing)

> in Mezzio. Laminas-mvc does not have a global middleware pipe, so middleware can not be piped in front of MVC controllers.

Reviewer 3: May be elevate the note about middleware in front of controllers to a note block to be more prominently visible?
